In this video we're going to discuss another big issue with our current project.
This is the last big issue we're going to tackle after this one.
We're then going to start to focus on the product side of our application so let's figure out what is
all that wrong with our project right now and figure out how to fix it up okay.
So I got to give you a quick demonstration over at that base camp Web site once again.
You don't have to go to base camp.
We're not using it for anything.
I just want to give you a very quick demonstration on how they're logging form works.
So I am on the sign in page.
I'm going to enter in a garbage e-mail right here when I hit next and then going to see a validation
message on the same form.
So a user could use this form try to log in see validation message right away and then say oh I must
have put in the incorrect e-mail I'm going to put in a correct one and then attempt to sign in again
unfortunately our application doesn't work as nicely as this one right now.
Let's take a look at what our app does when a user fails to sign incorrectly.
So I got to go back to our application.
I'm gonna go to the slash sign in route.
So here is our sign in form.
And now if I enter in a garbage email and a garbage password and click sign in I get a separate each
HTML document altogether that says email not found so when a user uses our application they are going
to submit the form and then see an error and then to actually attempt to log in again a user would have
to go click the back button and once they hit that back button they've now lost that validation message
and so they might not quite remember exactly what just went wrong.
And so they might try to sign it again with the same exact invalid e-mail and just end up seeing the
same error message again.
So what I want to do is get a logging experience a little bit more similar to base camps.
I want to make sure that if a user attempts to log in and enters in an invalid email or password I want
to show the same form to the user but with a validation message on here that tells them exactly what
just went wrong.
I want to make sure that the same thing happens for our sign up page as well.
So if a user goes to a slash sign up and they enter in say two passwords that don't match I don't want
to have a separate each single document to show that validation message.
Instead I want to show that validation message on the exact same form so that a user can attempt to
sign up again right away without having to go click on that back button.
So it's pretty clear the reason I show you both the sign in and the sign up pages for this.
The thing I want make sure is kind of clear here is that we're not going to do like some kind of one
off behavior here.
In other words we're not talking about just showing you validation message on one form.
We're talking about figuring out some repeatable solution that we can use again and again and again
inside of our project to handle validation on all the different forms we create.
So whatever solution we come up with for this needs to be easily repeatable and needs to be kind of
convenient for us to use as developers as well.
The other thing I want to point out here is that we're really discussing kind of two distinct different
problems.
The first problem or the first part of this problem is that well we need to somehow validate these different
messages or these different inputs.
We need to produce a reasonable feedback message to send to the user.
The second part of the problem is that we need to somehow take that validation message and show it inside
of the different views that we've put together.
So the sign in view and the sign up view that we're going to first focus on part 1 of this problem we're
going to figure out a convenient way to handle validation inside of our application a more convenient
way than what we are doing right now which is to do these simple if statements inside of our post request
handler for sign up and the post request handler for signing in as well.
So we need to have some more convenient way of doing this validation stuff.
So that's gonna be the first big focus we have.
Let me show you a library that we're going to use to handle validation for us in some kind of automatic
sense inside of our project that we're going to be using a library called Express validator to help
us validate the contents of all these different forms.
Let's take a look at the documentation for this library by going to NPM J Ask.com I'm going to search
for Express dash validator and hopefully I'll be the first result on this list.
So this is a middleware very similar to some of the other middleware that we've used already specifically
made for you guessed it.
EXPRESS j ust which is what we are using inside of our application so we need to install this as an
NPM dependency.
We also can take a look at the documentation as well by going to that link right there and I'm going
to take out a look at the documentation right away okay.
So inside this Getting Started page for the documentation we can get a pretty good example on how to
make use of this.
It's got kind of a interesting style to take a look at the second code snippet right here.
It's a little bit hard to see let me zoom in.
Just make it easier to the idea behind the Express validator library is that we're going to pass in
an array as the second argument to our post request or whatever request handlers inside our application
and inside that array we're going to tell express validator to automatically do some validation on the
different inputs that are being provided to our callback or this root handler from the browser so when
we say check user name and check password right here that is telling express validator to go and find
a username property or a password property inside the request body it's then going to check to make
sure that the user name provided isn't email.
And in this case that the password is at least five characters long then if there is any validation
error with those two inputs inside of the request handler itself right here we are supposed to call
validation results on that request object and that's going to give us back an object that tells us whether
or not there were any errors in that incoming data.
So this is the library that we're going to use to do some better validation of the inputs that are being
given to us.
So let's install this and then we'll figure out how to use it a little bit more in detail beyond the
simple example we see right here in the next video I'm gonna go back over to my terminal I'm going to
stop my server I'll do an npm install express dash validator I'll let that do its thing and once it's
done I'm going to make sure that I restart my server with NPM run Dev okay.
It's like I said Quick pause we'll come back in just a moment and we'll make sure that we add in some
code to handle validation of these different things that are being provided to us from our form a little
bit better than what we're doing right now.